Hello, everyone. Welcome to a new episode of The
Dissenter. I'm your host, as always, Ricardo Lobs, and
today I'm joined by a return guest, Doctor, Doctor
Michael Hummer. And today we're talking about his book,
Progressive Myths. So, Doctor Hummer, there it is, the
cover, really nice. So Doctor Hummer, welcome back to
the show. It's always a pleasure to talk with
you.
Thank you. Uh, THANKS for having me. It's great
to be here.
So progressive myths, uh, I mean, why did you
decide to write such a book and why did
you decide to focus specifically on progressive myths and
not, for example, include also myths from the other
end of the political spectrum. The conservatives are, uh,
a book just on conservative myths.
Yeah, well, um. So that's 2 questions. Uh, YEAH,
you know, why, why did I write about, um,
why did I write about this at all? Because,
uh, I got tired of hearing lies and deceptions
and, you know, misleading statements. And, um, it just
seemed to me like in political discourse, you know,
there's like, there's all this argumentation going on, but
it's all like, um, almost everyone is just like
completely ignorant of the actual facts about the things
that they're talking about. And like the main, the
main problem is people just not knowing the facts.
And then there are all of these, like, you
know, bogus factoids that are just going around. Uh,
AND, you know, we can't, we can't solve any
social problems if we don't know what's actually going
on. We're not gonna solve social problems if we
have just like completely incorrect conceptions of what's going
on. Right. And so, um, you know, like, uh,
we're not, we're not gonna solve the problem of,
um, violence in the inner cities if we think
the problem is racist cops, when, in fact, that's
not the problem. You know, like, the reason why,
um, you're seeing, um, Black people being killed by
the police on television is not because the cops
are a bunch of racists. It's because actually, uh,
1, those people are attacking the police. They're like
physically trying to kill the police officer. And 2,
the media is only selecting out a, uh, small
fraction. So they're only selecting out white cop on
black cop violence to show you. That's why you're
seeing that. So, you have to understand that that's
what's actually going on if you're going to address
the problem. Well, OK, if the problem is like,
uh, these people are attacking the cops, then you
need to address that. You need to stop people
from attacking the cops, you know, not, OK, anyway,
and then, and why did I not write a
book about conservative myths, you know. Um, I'm just
seeing a lot more left-wing myths and ones that,
um, appear to educated people to be reports of
actual facts. Right. So like, you know, you hear,
oh, the 2020 election was stolen, you hear that
from, uh, I guess, populist right wing voices. But
that's not a thing that like, people in my
circles would think was an actual fact. Right, like
they're not things that would mislead a typical um
educated person.
And by your circles, do you mean academics or
yeah, you know, academics and other intellectuals that I
interact with, you know, it's like, and so there's
not that much for me to do as a
scholar. It's like, oh, well, they're just lying, as,
as you know, you know, like everybody, OK, all
those people are just lying about the election, as
you know, so there's not that much for me
to say.
Oh, OK. So then just to clarify this point,
by progressive, you mean left wing. Is that it,
or is it a particular, um, a particular, uh,
uh, um, um, a, a particular group from the
left wing?
Um, YEAH, I guess it's Um, It's a subset
of the left, yeah.
OK.
The left, the left used in America used to
be called liberals. And they used to believe in
free speech and freedom of religion and whatever, freedom
of conscience and stuff like that. And that used
to be actually pretty important to them. Um, BUT
now there's this sort of like, there's this extremely
illiberal segment of the left. So I don't want
to call them liberals anymore, right? And so I'm
calling them progressives. And so I intend that to
include the wokesters. So the woke left is the
people who are obsessed with race and gender and
sex and whatever these identity, identity politics. But I
intended to also include the, you know, people who
are thinking like, oh, like capitalism is unjust. And,
you know, the rich are all, all exploiting the
poor, as well as the people who are like,
uh, freaked out about global warming and stuff like
that.
Right. And uh just to clarify one more point
before we get into the actual myths you tackle
in your book, what counts as a myth? I
mean, how do you determine that something is a
myth?
Yeah, I mean, so first I only wanted to
include Um, what you might call objective factual claims,
not matters of opinion, and Things that are relatively
straightforward, OK? So like, um, And socialism is better
than capitalism. I wouldn't include that because it just,
it's, it's just too big and complicated of an
issue, right? It's not like a straightforward factual matter.
Um, BUT so they've got to be straightforward, like
empirical factual claims. So, um, like, um, women get
paid less than men do for the same work.
Like that's a fairly straightforward empirical factual claim. Um,
SO, OK, so it's got to be that. And
also, um, well, the, the myths that I'm interested
in, the progressive myths are ones that appear to
strongly support some element of progressive ideology. Uh, AND,
you know, lastly, they have to be, as a
matter of fact, um, empirically, objectively false. Right, or
highly misleading, right? By highly misleading, I mean, there's
some additional context that if you knew it would
just radically alter the conclusion that you draw. Right,
like, you know, this, this thing is supposed to
support the left wing point, but if you add
additional context, it actually supports the right wing point.
Right. So you start the book by talking about,
in terms of the myths, by talking about individual
cases, cases that were very prominent in the media,
that were legal and criminal cases, and you talk
about, for example, I, I, I don't want to
go through every single one of them, but you
talk about Trayvon Martin, Michael Brown, Amy Cooper, Jacob
Blake, and Kyle. Rittenhouse and then you also covered
the three non-myths involving Eric Garner, Brianna Taylor, and
George Floyd. So what do you make of the
impact of the way cases like these are portrayed
in the media and how much they influence people?
And do you think that there is a general
bias in the media in the way they portray
these cases?
Yeah, well, there's an obvious bias, right, which is
um. Uh, THERE'S a bias towards reporting black people
getting killed, and especially getting killed by white people.
Um, NOW, as I say that, I recall the
Kyle Rittenhouse case, which, which was widely covered. Um,
AND a lot of people got the impression that
Kyle Rittenhouse killed black people, but he didn't. Like,
um, I think he shot 3 people who were
all white. OK. But it was nevertheless reported as,
oh, he's a racist, and then people came up
with the impression that he shot some black people.
OK. So anyway, like, that's the bias of the
media, to try to portray it as white people
are oppressing black people. Um, THERE are many cases
of unarmed white people being killed by the police
that you never hear about, right? So in the
book, I, like I listed, you know, names of
multiple, just several unarmed white people who were killed
by the police, and you've never heard of any
of them. Because they would not be covered by
the media, right? So, um, Yeah, I, you know,
that's right. And then, you know, and then sometimes
like, um, journalists are often kind of lazy and
irresponsible. So, you know, sometimes their coverage will be,
they'll just report what somebody told them, but they
don't know whether it's true, right? So like the,
the Michael Brown case, you know, they would be
reporting that, uh, well, somebody told them that Michael
Brown had surrendered. He held up his hand and
said, you know, don't shoot or whatever. Um, AND
then, you know, this racist cop just gunned him
down, and that did, that did not happen, that
objectively did not happen. OK. But, you know, like,
sometimes they'll just say like, you know, yeah, this
is what people told us. But, you know, you
can't just say what somebody told you. You have
to like try to find out if it's true.
Mm. Uh, I mean, but what do you make
of, for example, just to pick one of the
non-myth cases that you talk about in the book,
the case of George Floyd, do you think that
in that particular case, uh, the media covered it?
Accurately and for example, I know that in the
alternative online media, um, that I mean that are
is created by right-wing figures in the US, it
was portrayed inaccurately. So uh what do you make
of that?
Um, I mean, not all of the facts. Um,
WERE widely reported, right? So I, I think it
was not widely reported that George Floyd was on,
was he on meth or or fentanyl? He's on
fentanyl. OK. So I think that was not widely
reported and that, that, um, uh, almost certainly contributed
to his death. OK, so there, there's like this
sort of right-wing revisionary. View now that actually, um,
Derek Chauvin didn't kill George Floyd. He, he died
of an overdose, overdose of fentanyl. OK. Um, AND,
uh, I think that's bullshit. OK, because I think
it is too much to believe that, yeah, he
was just on the verge of death, and he
was just going to die, and it just, it
just happened to be at the same time that
Derek Chauvin was kneeling on his neck with his
knee. Just, you know, coincidentally, like, no, OK. Now,
uh, I, I do believe it's plausible that he
was in a more vulnerable state than normal, so
that would not normally have killed a person. But
it did kill him because he was in a
vulnerable state because he was high on this drug.
Yes I think that's true, but uh, that it's
still a homicide. OK, now, uh, and I don't
think that Chauvin was trying to kill George Floyd.
OK. And you know, you might think, well, how
does he get charged with murder because, you know,
you need intent in order to have murder. But
um the answer is there's this felony murder rule,
which is if you commit a felony, and the
felony itself is intentional, and then if somebody dies
as a result, even though you didn't intend to
death, then you can be charged with murder. So
that was the rule that they applied. And that
is, that rule is questionable, but they have been
applying that to everyone else. They've been applying that
to people who are not cops. So if that's
what we do, You should apply the same rule
to the cop. And so, so, it was a
just verdict.
But, but I mean, let me just ask you
again, uh, a question about the bias in the
media because one very particular, uh, particularly interesting thing
that I find in the US media because we
don't really have that kind of phenomenon here in
Portugal is that you have certain Um, mainstream media
channels like Fox News who tailor specifically to conservatives
and people on the right, and then you have
others like, for example, CNN who tailor more to
people on the left and progressives. I mean, the,
but, but because you have both, do you think
that the media in the US is biased more
toward, uh, progressive views or, or not?
Well, I, I mean, I think there are more
left wing sources, and they're sort of more establishment,
you might say. Uh, THEY'RE like, they're right wing
sources that are not really media companies, right? Like
maybe they're podcasters or something like that. And so
it's not. Yeah, it's not really clear who has
the upper hand, right? And there's like talk radio
is more conservative, but television is more left wing,
um. Yeah, it's sort of like, you know, the
internet democratized things, OK. But, you know, this, um,
Uh, this balance isn't really good, because it's just
like, oh, well, you have like people bullshitting on
both sides, and that does not mean that the
truth is going to come out. Right. Like, OK,
they're both just telling different lies. And by the
way, they're covering different stories. They're telling different lies
about different stories. So like, you know, uh. You
know, everybody's deceived,
right, but I mean, what are the lessons that
you think people should take from the cases you
explore in your book when it comes to the
way the police behaves? Are the police devils or
angels? I mean, do you think that we can
make any case like that when it comes to
the,
well, you know, most of them are just average,
you know, most of them are neither devils nor
angels, um. And I, I mean, I think the
lesson is you have to look at the facts
of an individual case. Justice is individual, justice is
not collective, right? This is why I don't like
the phrase social justice, and the people who are
going around talking about social justice are usually people
who don't, in fact, Um, they don't value justice,
and they don't know what justice is. Because justice
is not for groups, justice is for individuals. So
like a guy gets accused of something, you have
to look at that individual and what he specifically
did and what the specific details are of that
case. You cannot look at the group that he
belongs to. Right? And like, I, I feel like
that's what happened. Like you have these uh conservative
commentators who are just in favor of the cops
because they're cops. So like, they're going to defend
Derek Chauvin because he's a cop, and then they're
just going to like try to find some way
that he's not guilty. And then you have these
left wing people who are just like against the
cops because they're cops, and they're white, right? And
like, and if the person who got killed was
black, you know, it's just because of the groups
that they belong to, OK. So none of those
people know what justice is. That's not what justice
is about, right? It's about the individual.
Right, but I mean, evaluating things on an individual
basis, it's perfectly plausible that there are a few
cops out there that might be racist.
Yeah, yeah, I mean, but, you know, by the
way, there could be cops who are prejudiced against
blacks, and there could also be cops who are
prejudiced against whites, right? And, uh, by the way,
if you just look at the shooting statistics, um,
they suggest that there's a bias against whites or
in favor of blacks. Right, that is so, which
is the opposite of what they tell you in
the media, OK. But, um, you know, if you,
so in the media, they tell you there's a
bias against blacks overall. Um, BUT that's so because
just as members of the population, black people are
more likely to get shot by the police than
white people. But if you control for violent crime
rates, then white people are more likely to be
killed by the police than black people. Right. And,
uh, you know, so like, If the reason why
you get shot by the police is that you
were attacking them, that's not racism. And so the
situation is that black suspects are more likely to
attack the cops. OK, but like, but if you
sort of control for like what the person is
doing, then they're more likely to shoot you if
you're white. So, but anyway, OK, side point. But
by the way, like, I do think there's evidence
that American police are more violent than necessary. Like
they use force more often than police in other
countries, so they use force more often than they
have to. I think that's true. I just don't
think that it's racist. It's not about race. It's
just about an overall culture of excessive force.
And do you think that that force that the
American police tends to use more than the police
of other countries is, uh, unjustified, or do you
think that that difference points to an unjustified use
of force or, or not?
Yeah, that's what I'm saying. Yeah, I mean, um,
obviously sometimes you have to use force, OK, so
like when you look at some of these cases,
um, that I discussed like the Michael Brown case,
man, that cop had no choice. He had to
shoot Michael Brown, like, Michael Brown attacked him, then
he ran away, and then the cop tried to
follow him, and then Michael Brown tried to charge
him. Right. And by the way, this is like,
you know, this is a suspect who outweighs the
cop by 50 pounds. So this is, this is
like serious business. You cannot be, you cannot let
that guy get on top of you. OK. So
he just has no choice. OK. But also, I'm
sure that there are cases of unjustified shootings, right?
And, um, you know, as I say, like, well,
American police use force more than police in other
countries. Like there's evidence of that. So, they're probably
using force more often than, than they should. Right,
like, you know, probably most shootings are justified, but
we could reduce, we could reduce the shootings.
Mhm. So, I mean, this is not directly related
to uh shooting black or white people, but uh
there are people on the left that make this
kind of case that uh that there's a bias
in terms of policing. I mean, because if the
police have limited resources and they have to choose
the area. They are going to police the most.
Couldn't it be that over time the policing becomes
biased towards certain groups of people like blacks, and
then that would also be a reason why they
catch more black people committing crime than whites, and
then one of the reasons why they have higher
crime rates. I mean, what do you make of
that? I mean. Um, THE reason why the police
respond, like the police spend more time in minority
neighborhoods, neighborhoods that are poor, and also like disproportionately
have, um, Racial minorities, the reason for that is
that there's more crime there. It's not that the
cops are victimizing the minorities, it's that they're trying
to protect them because that's their job. OK, like
they get calls to, to respond to a potential
crime in progress. And they're supposed to go. Like,
like, you know, what, what are they supposed to,
they're there, they're there to protect those people. So
they have to go, and then they're going to
wind up arresting people who are going to be
the same color as the victims, usually, right? Because
like, you know, most crime is, it's within a
racial group. Um, IT'S with, it's people who live
in a neighborhood victimizing other people in their same
neighborhood. OK. So it's like, it's like the people
on the left are only looking at the criminals.
They're looking at the criminals as the victims and
like, oh, you know, you arrested all these people
who are criminals, but they're darker skinned, so you're
victimizing them. But look at the victims, look at
the crime victims, right? Because like those are the
people we should be caring about more and they
need to be protected and they need to be
protected from the other people in their neighborhood.
Right, uh, but, but I mean, just to, uh,
I mean, perhaps, uh, insist a little bit more
on this point, uh, uh, just to see what
do you think about it. I mean, uh, but
again, because people, uh, police have limited resources and
even nowadays I know that there are certain police
departments where people have. Already resorted to or implemented
uh AI systems to make decisions in terms of
the areas they should police more. Don't you think
that over time that could produce a bias in
terms of the people they catch committing crime?
Well, I mean, what do you, do you mean
by a bias like they're going to catch more
I, I, I, I mean that that perhaps uh
they would uh over time decide to police more
areas that are, for example, predominantly black instead of
predominantly white, and so that would skew the crime
statistics towards uh black people.
But I mean. They should police the high crime
areas more than the low crime areas, right? So
I, so like, I don't think, like, I don't
think that's a bias, right? Like, OK, and then
you're like, oh, well, but then they're going to
catch more black ones. True, but that's what they
should do. And again, like, we should be more
concerned about crime victims than about criminals. OK. So
the fact that they're catching more criminals in those
neighborhoods means that they're protecting more of the people
in those neighborhoods. So, like, if anything, that's a
bias. In favor of the minorities in that neighborhood,
right? Like the innocent ones, not the criminals. OK,
you could describe it as a bias against the
criminals, OK, right? But it would be like a
bias in favor of their potential victims. OK, but
by the way, like, you know, I mean, maybe,
maybe you're suggesting, oh, well, like maybe the crime
statistics aren't really that lopsided, like maybe white people
are committing just as many crimes, and like, uh,
nobody thinks that. Like, I don't think any serious
social scientist thinks that, OK. Um, AND there, you
know, like, there aren't, um, There aren't enough unsolved
crimes for that to be the case, OK. So,
you know, it's estimated that something like 40% of
homicides are committed by black people in America, and
black people are something like 13% of the population.
So there's just more violence occurring. Um, IT'S not
the fault of the cops, it's not the fault
of the white people, you know, it's the fault
of the criminals.
Right. I mean, this is not something that you
explore in your book, but uh what do you
think, do you have any idea about what would
explain The fact that uh black people commit more
violent crime in terms of percentage than white people
because uh if we talk to right-wing people and
left wing people, they would put forth different hypotheses.
For example, there are right-wing pundits that would say,
oh, it has to do with black culture or
It has to do with the fact that there
are many single parent households among the black community.
If you talk with left wing pundits, they would
say, oh no, it has mostly to do with
poverty with poverty rates and with socioeconomic factors. I
mean, do you have any opinion on that,
or I mean, probably all of those things are
factors. Like we don't really know, there's no agreement,
and I'm not a social scientist, like. I wouldn't
really be able to figure that out. Um. But
yeah, there are probably multiple factors. Uh, THERE'S been
this breakdown of the family. So they're just like,
you know, over the past whatever, several decades, there's
been a huge increase in out of wedlock births,
uh, particularly in the black community. And, um, you
know, like it's, it's a reasonable point by the
conservatives that um young boys need a father. And
that, you know, like they get to a certain
age and their mother can't control them anymore and
they need a father. Um, TO control them and
keep them out of trouble. You know, with, with,
keep them out of the gangs or whatever, you
know, groups of criminals. Um, THAT'S probably part of
it. Um. And then obviously, as you also mentioned,
well, yeah, poverty is correlated with crime. And so,
and, you know, like it's lower socioeconomic status. Um
Yeah, uh, and this is something that you just
tangentially talk about in your book, but since we're
also talking here about racism, what do you make
of systemic racism? Do you think that there is
such a thing in the US particularly? No,
um, I, I don't know, like, is, is there
such a thing at all? Maybe, you know, but,
uh. It's, it's just sort of, I generally view
it as an excuse. So like, you want, you
want to declare that all of our problems are
due to racism or whatever, that there's racism rampant,
but you can't find any actual racists, right? Or
you, you know, you don't find enough of them,
you only find like a tiny number of them
who have very little power. OK, so then you
say, well, the system is racist. And then, you
know, it's usually like, um, just sort of like
asserted, and you don't have to prove that. OK,
and then, you know, I try to get examples
of, OK, how is the system racist? Um, IT'S
just like, just, just tell me a specific example,
OK. I have heard examples like, oh, well, the
drug laws, the drug laws are racist. Because they
disproportionately send black men to prison. Because black men
disproportionately violate the drug laws. OK, that doesn't make
the laws racist, right? Like, you know, is the
murder statute racist because black people disproportionately commit more
murders? Like, no. It's, you know, that we didn't
have, we didn't start um a law against murder
because we don't like black people. OK. We created
that law because you can't kill people, like, because
that's unacceptable. Anyway, OK. But, oh, OK, but then,
you know, here, so, you know, this was a,
like one of the prominent examples, and I think
like, I don't know, one of the Um, clearest,
most comprehensible examples of the systemic racism was that,
um, the penalties for crack cocaine are harsher than
the penalties for powder cocaine. And crack cocaine is
more popular among black users and powder cocaine is
more popular among white users. So it's probably due
to racism. OK. And then I tried to look
up, well, how this came about. How did that
difference in the um punishment schedule come about? And,
uh, well, it turned out that actually, well, people
were concerned, this was whatever back in the 1970s
or something, people were concerned that crack cocaine was
devastating black communities. So the government thought they were
going to crack down on it by making the
penalties harsher. OK, and that was supported by the
Congressional Black Caucus. It was supported by like Democrat,
widely supported by Democrats, widely supported by black legislators.
Because they thought it was going to help. Like
they didn't like, they didn't make the laws because
they were trying to destroy the community. They weren't
trying to help the community because crack was destroying
it. Now, it turned out that it didn't work.
They didn't succeed in stopping it, and like the
drug laws have widely failed, OK. But it's not
racist because they failed, right? Like like they You
know, if anything, It, it was showing that they
were particularly concerned about helping the black community.
So do you think that when it comes to
determining if some something occurs due to racism, the
hardest part to really establish is the intent? I
mean, it's like the ongoing discussions that we've been
seeing about the genocide in Gaza where of course
the intent is the hardest part to prove. Do
you think that? In the particular case of racism,
the intent is also the hardest part to prove
because of course we can find statistics that are
skewed toward blacks or toward whites, for example, but
it's very hard to prove that. It's the result
of uh people uh um of people's racism, of
people proposing laws or doing something like the uh
the police policing cer certain areas and not others
because they are racist.
Yeah, and so. Yeah, how, how could you prove
what somebody's intent is? Well, um, you know, sometimes,
sometimes you can tell and sometimes you can't tell,
right? But, you know, generally, I would say, well,
start with the most straightforward and charitable interpretation unless
there's a specific reason to think otherwise. OK, so
the cops are policing a minority neighborhood and there's
two interpretations. Um, THEY hate black people, so they
want to arrest more black people so that they
can cause harm to those people that they arrest.
And then another interpretation is, uh, actually, it's their
job to stop crime. And there's more crime there,
right? And they're actually protecting the people in the
neighborhood. OK. Well, I just think that the second,
like, either of these are possible explanations, but I
think the second one makes more sense. It's more
like what a normal person would be motivated by,
you know, and just, OK. Um, OR, you know,
I gave that, uh, example of, um, the laws
about crack cocaine. Like it seems like a straightforward
explanation is they were trying to stop crack cocaine.
It wasn't that they wanted more black people to
be imprisoned, it was that they wanted there to
be less crack. And the way that seems straightforward,
and that seems to be supported by, you know,
the fact that like most black legislators were on
board. Right, and like, you know, the Congressional Black
Caucus met with Richard Nixon to urge him to
ramp up the drug war. No. So it sounds
just like, you know, OK, anyway, so, um. You
know, just like, you know, just don't jump to
the most uncharitable interpretation without good reason.
OK, that seems reasonable. So, uh, what you also
tackle some feminist myths in your book, uh, and
the first one has to do with the gender
pay gap. So I mean, from what you, uh,
I mean you looked at the statistics at the
data, uh, what is the real gender pay gap
and what do you think explains it?
Yeah, so, I mean, you know, people have been
saying for a while that women get paid less
than men, and sometimes they add for the same
work. Uh, AND then there, you know, there was,
you hear statistics like, oh, women get paid 70
cents for every $1 that men earn, or 72
cents or whatever.
Yeah, I heard 75 cents or something like that.
Yeah, OK. So, uh, it changed over the decades,
and so the most recent figure is 82 cents.
OK, but there's still an 18 cents gap. OK,
now, most people when they hear this, think that
that refers to pay for the same work, and
it does not. It refers to pay for different
work, right? And so if you control for various
pay relevant characteristics, you know, occupation, hours worked, amount
of experience, etc. THINGS that are obviously relevant to
how much you get paid, if you control these
other factors, and the pay gap virtually disappears. So
then, you know, it goes from 82 cents to
96 cents, 98 cents, 99 cents, depending on what
source you look at. Right. And so actually, like
if you add more context to this statistic, it
supports the opposite of the point. Instead of showing
that there's sexism, it tends to show that that
there's egalitarianism.
But I mean, when you control for all those
factors, isn't there still even if just a small
in the single digits, uh, a pay gap or
not? Yeah,
if you get a one cent pay gap or
something like that, that could just be random fluctuation,
right? Um, PLUS there are, there are factors that,
um, you're just like multiple other possible factors that
you can't control for, right? In fact, it is
plausible that there might be a reverse pay gap.
So, because there's just a whole bunch of other
uh controls that haven't been added in that would
be difficult to add. All right, um, Uh, so,
you know, like one thing was, if you just
look at never married people without children, um, the
women get paid more than the men. Mhm. And
so, um, you know that like. Um, I think
it was 18% more or something like that, the
statistic is in the book. Um, AND, uh, that's
kind of weird, you know, if you have this
theory that we live in this patriarchy, because, you
know, what is it that the patriarchy is discriminating
against most women, but not the women who are
most defying gender stereotypes, the one who are, who
are defying the gender roles, right? You know, by
being single and whatever. Um, Yeah, so, OK, and
now, you know, why, why might there be a
reverse pay gap? Um, WELL, like there's evidence in
psychology that um people like women more than they
like men. So you get this just from like,
you know, direct surveys about like what are your
attitudes towards these two groups. And just like overall,
on average, people have more positive attitudes about women.
Uh, ANOTHER thing is, you know, this implicit association
test. Which uh left wing people like when it's
being used for race. But, uh, they don't like
it as much when it's used for sex or
gender. OK, so, but,
but, but about the implicit association association test, hasn't
that been sort of scientifically debunked? I mean, does
it still hold any water either for race or
gender?
Yeah, well, it's really unclear what it means, right?
So, um, maybe we should tell the listeners what
it is. It's like, um, It's supposed to detect
your um implicit associations with a particular category. So
you're supposed to, um, You click a button when
you see something on a screen that relates to,
so for example, something that relates to either black
people or good things, and then a different button
for things that relate to either white people or
bad things. OK. And then that test, and then
they sort of like time your speed at clicking
the button correctly. And that's supposed to show how
easy it is for you to form associations between
black people and good things. OK. Uh, AND then,
you know, and then they do for a different
group, they'll like test the association between black people
and bad and, you know, white people and good.
OK. So it turns out that people have an
easier time associating white people with good things. THAN
associating black people with good things. OK. So, that
is claimed to show this kind of unconscious prejudice.
By the way, this even happens to people who
have explicitly egalitarian beliefs. This will even happen to
left-wing people. It happened to some black people also.
So, OK. So, um, You know, maybe it means
that, it's not really clear if that's what it
means. Um, They had a, they've had it, so
it, it might mean that, but they've had a
hard time detecting actual discriminatory behavior correlated with your
implicit associations, right? So like people who score on
the, on the implicit association test, people who score
as having like a bias against black people, um,
they haven't really been able to detect that that
affects their behavior in a way that causes them
to actually discriminate. Right. OK. But so anyway, um,
but it turns out that the, the same test
that shows that people have positive associations with white
people also shows that they have positive associations with
women. And less positive associations with men. Like it
takes, it takes longer, it's harder for people psychologically
to associate men with goodness.
Right, I mean, but, uh, you talked about those
kinds of biases that people might have that favor
women, uh, versus men. But what do you make
of this point that some people make when it
comes to the gender pay gap? Because, for example,
um, one of the arguments that, uh, some people
who, uh, tried to debunk the gender pay gap
put forth is that. Uh, BECAUSE people argue that
some of it has to do with personal choices,
with choices made by women in comparison to choices
made by men, and then they look at, for
example, Scandinavian countries, Norway, Sweden, Finland, uh, and also
Iceland, which tend to score the highest in terms
of gender equality, and they see that. There's still
certain occupations like being a nurse versus being an
engineer that are skewed toward female or male. Uh,
THEY say, they, they say that also you see,
when you remove social or sociocultural obstacles, men and
women still make different choices, or at least in
those particular areas, they tend. To make different choices,
but then, um, there are some left wing people
that critique that point and, and point to the
fact that for example in those same countries when
you look at household chores and how they are
divided, it seems that women still do most of
them even though there's been decades of pushing. For
gender equality in those countries and so they say
that uh uh things like that and that's not
the only example they give. I'm just talking about
one of the examples they talk about, but uh
things like that point toward the fact that even
though those countries have been have culturally uh pushed
culturally and politically pushed for gender equality for decades.
Uh, THE legacy of the patriarchal culture that existed
there before, uh, is still, I mean, is still
there, and so it, it, it, it, it, uh,
yeah, let me just please finish my point. And
so it would influence women to pick certain kinds
of areas that tend to be stereotypically more associated
with females.
Yeah, so, yeah, all that was correct up until
the conclusion, which is a total non sequitur and
it's like exactly the opposite of what the evidence
supports. OK, so I think what you're describing at
first is the countries that have the most egalitarian
culture. Also have women making actually more different choices
than men. Right? Like there's, there's greater gender difference
in their occupational choice. OK. That does not show
that it's the legacy of the patriarchy, that shows
the exact opposite. That shows that it's the result
of free choice. It's like that women and men
want to do different things. If you get into
an egalitarian society and it increases the differences in
their choices, that shows that they that they actually
have different preferences. OK. Now, um, and by the
way, like, you know, you can see these preferences
at an early age, like, you know, like small
children and like. Like they haven't had time to
learn what the gender roles are. They barely even
know what their gender is. And like the girls
prefer to play with dolls and the boys prefer
to play with toy trucks or something like that.
It's like, no, it's like, why, why do you
people, why do you leftists? I keep saying, oh,
they were, they were brainwashed by the culture. Like
there's no basis for saying that. Like, why don't
you just admit that there are differences, you know.
It's like males and females are different. That's how
it is. It's not, it's not oppression, it's not
an injustice. It's OK. It's OK for people to
be different. Like, it's not an injustice if we're
not like forcing people, if we're allowing people to
choose what they want. That's just, right? That's justice
and freedom.
So another myth that, or at least what you
deem to be a myth that you tackle in
your book has to do with the so-called campus
rape culture. So what do you make of the
statistic that 1 in 4 women are supposedly raped
in college and what, what is the real number?
Uh, SO I don't know what the real number
is. I think it might be 5% or it
might be 10%. I don't know. Um, BUT, but
it's, it's much lower than 1 in 4.
It's not 25%, um. Um, THERE were multiple things
wrong with that statistic. But by the way, just
like as a reality check, you know, the statistic
implies that American college campuses are more dangerous than
the most crime-ridden city in America. I think like
about 10 times more dangerous for women than the
most crime-ridden city in America, which is Detroit. You
know, how, how did that happen? Like, what are
these colleges doing? Like recruiting people right out of
the nation's prisons to be the, to be the
freshmen. Um, BUT, OK, you know, there were a
number of things wrong with the statistic. Um, SO
it's sort of like I don't know how much
we wanted to get into the details. Like some
of these things are details, like one of them,
one of the problems was just like an error
in probabilistic calculation in the paper that said that,
right? Where they add, they added up probabilities in
a case where they don't really add. OK. And
that, that just made a small difference, you know,
that just inflated the statistic by 2% points. OK,
no big deal. But then, you know, uh, and
then at another point, so what they've done is
they surveyed people about experiences that they've had in
the preceding 7 months or 5 months or something
like that. And then they multiplied by the expected
length of a college career, in order to get,
you know, how many people would have one of
these negative experiences in their whole college career. OK.
And when they did that, they assumed that the
college career is 5 years, not 4 years. So
that would tend to inflate the statistic again. Now
the actually, the actual average length is 4.3 years.
OK. So, I made that correction, the number goes
down again. OK. Another interesting thing is that about
half of the people surveyed say that um they
were not raped. So that, that is, they do
a survey, they ask the person a bunch of
questions, and then the surveyor classifies whether that person
is a rape victim or not. OK. But one
of the questions is, were you raped? And about
half the people who the surveyor classifies as rape
victims said, no, they were not raped. OK. So
that's kind of weird. Um, AND now, you know,
so, well, it could be that they didn't realize
that they were raped, but they were. Or it
could be that the surveyor is like, you know,
giving an overly broad characterization, OK. Um, YOU know,
another problem, perhaps the biggest, or I don't know,
um, potentially the biggest error is actually, you get
different statistics from different surveys. So, um, I think
the same paper that reported the 1 in 4
statistic also reported the results of a different survey.
That got numbers an order of magnitude lower. So
like 10 times lower. OK. So, it like it,
and I don't, I don't know why. OK. You
do a little bit different methodology and then you
get radically different statistics. OK. And the difference in
methodology was basically like in one survey, the questions
are a lot more detailed and graphic about things
that might have happened to you. And then you
get higher. Higher rates. OK, OK. And, and, and
the other one they just ask you sort of
like a general question. So it could be that
the detailed graphic statistics get people to report things
that they otherwise wouldn't have reported. That happened, or
it could be that they get people to falsely
report things. That they otherwise wouldn't have falsely reported.
Um, RIGHT, it's not totally obvious, right? OK. And
then another thing is like they, they lumped together
completed rapes with mere unsuccessful attempts. And uh it
makes a big difference, you know, like if you're
the victim, it makes a big difference if it
was an unsuccessful attempt or an actual successful attempt.
But, but I, I mean, of course, getting the
number right is a matter of, uh, I mean,
I, I mean, getting to the truth is a
matter of uh epistemology and it has epistemic value
attached to it. But do you think that apart
from that, Reporting such statistics might also be problematic
in other ways. I mean, in, in, in what
other ways do you think that reporting such numbers
can be problematic? Do you think that it can
have social, uh, negative social consequences?
Yeah, I mean, so one thing is, if you
actually believe these statistics, um, should you go to
college if you're a woman? Or, you know, if
you have, if you have a daughter, should you
send her to college? Like, there's a wonderful chance
she's going to get raped while she's there. Like,
I would think that people would not send their
kids there if they believed that. All right. Um,
Now, yeah, so there hasn't been like this great
turn away from sending people to college, but that
probably means that people don't believe the statistic. It
probably means that even the people who are saying
it don't believe it. Um, OK, but, you know,
the other thing is just with social problems in
general. You kind of need accurate information. If you're
like overstating some of the problems, then what happens
is that you misdirect resources. So we wind up
directing resources to problems that we think are big
that are not, and then we neglect other problems
that are bigger. Because we have limited resources, right?
Like we can't, we can't spend all of our
money on everything. Right, that's a problem. And then
there's just sort of like, I don't know, attentional
resources. People are going to be attending to things
that they think are the biggest problems, so we
just kind of need to have an accurate assessment
of how big each problem is.
OK, so let's now talk about, uh, gender, uh,
gender myths or what you deem to be gender
myths and transgender people. So, what is your take
on gender? Being a social construct. I mean, perhaps
I would ask you to please first tell us
what the social construct is and then if you
think that gender is one or not.
Well, I mean, so it used to be popular
for people on the left to say gender is
socially constructed. It means something like, I don't know,
like it's not, it's not biologically based or something
that just society assigns to you a role. And
so you, you'll get left-wing people saying like gender
is the role assigned to you by society or
something like that, um, which has the implication that,
um, women in different societies do not have the
same gender. Right, that they're not women in the
same sense, because they have different social roles assigned
to them. OK. Um, OK, but like it just,
the conflict between this and another kind of strand
of leftism has come out, you know, in the
last whatever, several years, because the idea of it
being a social construct is in conflict with the
popular, uh, transgender ideology. Right, so like the popular
cancel ideology is, well, um. Uh, YOU get assigned
a gender at birth, but the assignment could be
wrong. OK, so like the transgender people say that
they're a different gender from the gender that everyone
around them was telling them that they are throughout
their childhood. So if gender is just socially constructed,
how could that be? It would have to be
that they were wrong. Right? If gender is socially
constructed, then society can't be wrong. Whatever gender you
were assigned by society has to be your gender,
OK? But you have these transgender people who are
saying, No, I'm not, I'm not that gender. OK?
And like, and, you know, some of them, some
of them will be saying that they always knew
from the beginning. Right, there are cases of these
people who like, you know, from the age of
4 years old, they like, it's a, it's a
boy, but they say that they're a girl. From
the age of 4 years old, they're trying to
wear dresses and stuff like that. OK, and you
know, you get that, it's like, well. Yeah, OK,
they were not taught that by society. It looks
like it is innate. It looks like there's something
innate in in the brain. That tells them what
gender they're supposed to have. And in a small,
very small range of cases, it just clashes with
their body. So like, you know, there would be
a person who their brain is telling them that
they're supposed to be female, but their body is
male, or vice versa.
But uh, I mean, but do you? Do you,
do you make a, or make a distinction between
sex and gender? Because, uh, I've talked with a
lot of anthropologists on the show, some of them,
uh, evolutionary or biological anthropologists, others even cultural anthropologists,
and they all tell me that it is important
to Uh, make a distinction between sex and gender
because wherever you are biologically, either a male or
a female, uh, does not need to correspond exactly
to the kind of social expectations put on you
in the particular society you live in as a
woman or a man, and so they say that
it's important to make that distinction. What do you
think of that?
Yeah, so. Um, THERE is an important distinction, but
I don't think it has to do with social
roles, or, you know, society's expectations of you. Like
society's expectations of you are a completely separate thing.
That's neither sex nor gender, right? Sex is, um,
Characteristics of your body, particularly your reproductive system, right?
And then, and, you know, maybe to a lesser
extent, the secondary sex characteristics, OK. But, um, gender,
in my view is something that's in your brain
or in your mind. Uh, IT'S a set of
psychological characteristics that evolution designed to go along with
a particular biological sex. So the masculine gender is
the set of psychological characteristics that are adaptations, evolutionary
adaptations for life in a male body. And femininity
is the adaptations for, you know, psychological adaptations for
life in a female body. OK, so that, right,
that's basically my theory, and it is possible to
have a mismatch. It's possible to have a basically
feminine. Mind or psychology and just accidentally. You know,
you're in a male body OK. Now, I think
that's extremely rare. So if you look at the
DSM-4, like the most recent version, which is from,
I think, 2013, it reports the prevalence of this
in the neighborhood of 1 in 10,000 people in
the population. OK, so it's not like this is
going on all the time. Uh, BUT something else
has happened in recent years, like in the last
decade, where the number of people identifying as transgender
has just exploded. So it's like exploded by a
hundredfold or more. So in some surveys, you now
have 1% or more of people saying that they're
transgender. OK, so I think that is not the
same phenomenon. So I think there was one phenomenon
that the DSM was talking about, that is something
like 1 in 10,000 people in the population, where
you genuinely have a mismatch between your, your innate
gender that's programmed into your brain and your body
type. But then there's another phenomenon that's going on
today, which has exploded the number of people who
call themselves transgender, and it's partly this kind of
social contagion. Right, it's that, um, First of all,
people can get confused about their gender, especially young
people. And like, you know, Like people could even
get confused about their sexual orientation. Um, AND, you
know, like, there's, you know, a documented phenomenon that,
um, social contagion can affect anorexia. So like, um,
adolescent, young adolescent women can be, um, They can
become anorexic because other people around them are anorexic,
because like it's getting reinforced by online content and
maybe their friend group and stuff like that, OK.
And in that phenomenon, you can have people who
are starving, literally on the brink of starvation, and
they think that they're fat. OK, so if that
can happen, it's, it's even more like even more
easily possible for somebody to get confused about their
gender. So I think part of what has happened
is that there's a bunch of people who are
confused about their gender, and that confusion is being
reinforced by elements in the culture. Like there's online
content where people are trying to encourage you to
think that you're transgender, and like encouraging you to
attribute sort of general malaise that teenagers undergo to
being transgender.
But don't you think that at least part of
that big increase in the number of people who
identify as transgender could uh be something similar to
what happened when, for example, in schools, teachers stopped
forcing people to learn to write with their right
hand and so after that there was uh an
explosion. In terms of left-handed people and what happened
also with homosexual people when uh it became more
uh socially acceptable to be a gay or lesbian
that their number also in a very short period
of time increased. I mean, do, don't you think
that at least part of that could be explained
as a phenomenon similar to that?
Yeah, so I don't know the statistics on like
how many people are left-handed or whatever, but um,
so there could be increased reporting because of increased
social acceptance of transgenderism. But a hundredfold, right? Because
like the DSM said, 1 in 10,000 people or
something in that neighborhood, that general order of magnitude
had gender dysphoria. And then you get like surveys
in which 1%, so that's like 100 times as
many people say that they're transgender. OK. And then,
and by the way, it varies, um, geographically and
with the group. So, like, uh, they're more, it's,
it's stronger among young people. OK, and then like,
it's stronger in New York or in blue states,
like there's more transgenderism. OK. Uh, ANOTHER, another interesting
thing is like, um, you know, it runs in
friend groups. OK. So I think there was one
anecdote where um there were, there were a group
of, uh, like multiple young women who were working
with a popular coach at a high school. So
I think it's like 4 or 5 women. And
then like, and the coach came out as transgender,
and then like multiple of the women like came
out as transgender within the next year. It's like,
OK. You know, this is, this is not like,
this is not just chance, OK? And it can't
be that like, they just were really transgender all
along, right? And furthermore, like, this is happening with
people who never showed any signs of being trans
when they were Young, right, like when they were
little kids, OK. So if you, if you were
4 years old when you first said that you
were the other gender, then I believe you. If
you're, if you're 4 years old and then you
persisted in that for the next 10 years, then
I believe you. OK. But if you always acted
like a normally feminine girl, and then when you
reach the age of 14, you decided that you're
a boy, I don't believe you.
Oh, OK, but in terms of the, the consequences,
let's then, uh, assume that, uh, A big chunk
of uh those people now identifying as transgender, it
uh it has to do with the social contagion.
I mean, in terms of the potential consequences of
that, I mean, when it comes to, for example,
uh, them, uh, transitioning to the other. Sex or
having access to, for example, puberty blockers or or
when they're older, having access to sex reassignment surgery.
I mean, since that is sort of um. Since
they have to be seen and followed by doctors,
uh, I mean, do you think that that would
really have any big social consequences, because if they,
if doctors are able to spot the ones that
are not really transgender people. Uh, IT, it couldn't
it just be the case that over time the
over time, the ones who are not will just
grow out of it, and there, there won't be
any relevant consequences.
Well, I mean, they will grow out of it
if um they are not allowed to make permanent
changes to their body. So, you know, like, it,
we have left wing people saying that like, You
know, transgender kids who are underage should be able
to go through surgeries to alter their body and
like, That that may be ruining their lives. You
know, or that they should take these drugs to
uh block puberty and like take cross-sex hormones or
things like that. Uh, AND, you know, like, If
the majority of these people are going to turn
out to not really be trans, you can't be
doing that. Right? Like this is serious long-term consequences.
So, look, I think, um, once, once you're 18
or over, you do whatever you want, right? It's
nobody else's business. But before the age of 18,
like I think the parents have to protect the
children. And I don't, I don't really know how
to tell. You know, who's who's really trans. I,
I don't, I don't really have good advice about
that, but I, I don't think that you should
just, you know, give the transition to everyone. Um,
I think, you know, like the, I think the
parents have to. They have to roll, they have
to, they have to be able to veto that.
Uh, I mean, but the, the, those sorts of
claims you say some left-wing people make about, uh,
small children having access to, that, that they should
have access to, uh, puberty blockers or even surgery.
I mean, that, that's not something allowed by the
medical system or, or is it?
Yeah, I don't really know how much is happening,
like, cause, you know, I, I keep hearing right
wing people saying that that they're doing this to
the kids, but I don't know if that's propaganda.
I haven't really fact checked it, right? So, I,
I don't want to say like it, it, it
probably has happened. Uh, I don't, I don't know
how much.
Yeah. Yeah. Uh, SO, uh, just another sort of,
uh, phenomenon or even data point having to do
with transgender people. I mean, are there really, because
that also points to, uh, perhaps the rate of
people that are actually transgender or not transgender. So
are there really many people who did transition because
uh I've From what I've read, it's around 1
to 2% of people who regret transitioning and then
the transition. I, I mean, do you have any
other data about that?
So I tried to look up, so there's, you
know, two things called desistence and de-transitioning. So desistence
is where you say that you're transgender, but then
you later come to identify with your uh gender
assigned at birth, as they call it. Um, AND
Um, there are widely varying estimates of the prevalence
of that, OK. But that does appear to be
very common. And so the DSM back in 2013
said that the majority of cases of gender dysphoria
will resolve on their own. Um, AND the people
will come to accept their birth gender. OK. Um,
And then I, and I don't, I don't remember
the statistics from more recent surveys. OK, de-transitioning is
less common. So this is where you actually like
make some serious effort to transition to living as
the other gender. And it's less common after that
to go back. Now, um, I don't know why
that is. So that could be partly because it's
only the people who have more serious gender dysphoria
who make the transition in the first place. It
could also be because, like, once you transition, it's
harder to go back, right? Like, there's sort of
like a psychological pressure to stick with it, because
otherwise, you know, you have to admit that you
totally fucked up your life or something like that.
Uh, OK. So, and then, and I don't know
the prevalence of de-transitioning. Um, I think I tried
to look it up, but I didn't really find
Um, I didn't find a clear answer. OK, uh,
I, I don't believe that it's 1 to 2%.
Like that sounds to me like So I don't
know what it is, and I don't know where
that comes from, but that does sound to me
like a propaganda figure. Um, FROM political activists, so,
Yeah, just, you know, so like I know that's
not very helpful, but whenever I hear stuff like
that, like, it usually turns out to be bogus.
OK, so just one more question about transgender people
and then we'll, we'll, we'll move on to other
topics. So, in the book you also talk about
autogynophilia. I mean, what is that and what influence
do you think it might have when it comes
to these debates surrounding transgender people?
Yeah, um, Autogonopila is, um, being sexually excited by
the thought of yourself having a woman's body. And,
uh, so we know that this is a real
phenomenon because some transgender people, trans women in particular,
self-describe as autogonophile. So, like the, the whole theory
of autogonophilia as a major, major motivation for transgenderism,
it derives from surveys. Um, ESPECIALLY, you know, trans
women who say that they're sexually aroused by the
thought of having a female body. OK. Now, um,
if that's the reason why you're transitioning, I think
you are not in fact a woman. Right? Because
like that's not what gender is. Like feminine gender
is not being sexually excited by the thought of
yourself having a female body. And like, and so
if that's the reason why you want to transition,
then there's no evidence that you actually have feminine
gender. That doesn't mean that you can't do it.
Like, in my view, you can do whatever you
want with your own body. So you can like
get a surgery if that's what you want. OK.
But I don't think that you can fairly demand
that other people say that you're a woman, right?
Cause like, Like whether the word woman is connected
to biological sex or gender is sort of like
open to debate. Like some people think, well, you're
a woman if you have a female biological sex
and not otherwise. And then some people think, no,
you could be called a woman if you just
have feminine gender, even though you have a male
biological sex, OK. But if you're just an autogynophile,
you don't have either. You don't have to have
any gender, and you don't have female sex, so
like, You know, why do you think that you
can make other people call you a woman?
Yeah, because there are also people who talk about
a social transition, uh socially transitioning, and so, um,
they say that. I, I mean, you basically should
be called a woman or a man if you
present yourself socially as such.
Yeah, um, I mean, I, that would be fine
with me. I don't, I don't really care, but
it's like if somebody asked me, well, is this
person really in fact a woman, I, like, I'm
gonna have to say no. Like, like if the
person is like, you know, an autogynophile, and like,
and that's the reason for the transition. Um, MY
honest view is that they're not a woman, they're
a man. Now, like, I don't care if they
call themselves a woman, like, they're not upset about
that or whatever. Like they, they can do that
if they want. And like, you know, and maybe
like, maybe it would be nice and polite to
pretend that you think they're a woman, right? OK.
But also, like, I think they have no right
to get mad if somebody else doesn't believe them.
You know, And, and actually more generally, like, you
don't really have a right to control other people's
beliefs, so Um, if the other person doesn't believe
you, even though, even if they, even if they're
wrong, they still have the right to not believe
you. It's like, you know, if somebody's, if somebody
doesn't believe that I'm a man, even if they're
like being totally irrational, like I, it's, it's within
their rights. And you know, like there's no basis
for thinking that I'm not a man, but if
somebody says I'm not a man, like I can't
really. I can't, I don't have any basis for
retaliating. I can say they're an asshole, whatever. I
can retaliate verbally, like that's what I can do,
right? But I shouldn't be trying to harm them
in some substantial way. It's like, They can think
what they think.
Yeah, I mean, I don't think we can control
people's thoughts either way. So, uh, I mean, moving
on to economic myths, you tackle generational wealth in
your book. So what do we know about it?
Most wealth due to inheritance, family connections, and luck,
or is it, or are there other factors, or
other factors playing out here and how can we
know that? How do we know that?
Yeah, yeah, good question. No, there's a, there's substantial
upward mobility in our society. So like if you,
if you track people over time, um, people who
start out in the bottom 20%, uh, you know.
Commonly move up. OK. And by the way, people
just to be clear, you're focusing on the US,
correct? Right, yeah,
I only had statistics for the US, and people
who start out at the top, like in the
top 20%, will commonly move down, right? It's not
like, you know, it's not like your birth is
your destiny, um. Uh, THERE is a correlation between
parents' income and children's income, but that correlation appears
to be, um, entirely due to genetics and not
to environment. And we know this from, uh, adoption
studies. So like, um, the correlation goes away for
adopted children, roughly speaking. There's like a Korean adoption
study where American families adopted Korean children. Right? And
then it turned out that um that raises the
correlation between parents' income and children's income.
So, but genetics that would manifest in terms of
what, in terms of intelligence and IQ for example,
or other factors.
Right, yeah, so, yeah, so intelligence is one of
the major factors in just your success in life
in general and making income. Um, THERE'S also conscientiousness,
just this personality trait, um, uh, that, you know,
that's the other important one. And, um, that's probably
partly genetic. OK, but so, um, Oh, yeah. And
where, where does most wealth come from? Uh, WELL,
actually, no, it did not come from inheritance. So
like the left wing theory is, yeah, there's just
this generational wealth, and people just like, you know,
somebody got rich a long time ago, and then
they just pass it down, and then like when,
when their kids inherit the wealth, and it's easier
to get more wealth and so on. No, that's
not the way that works, actually. Like if you
inherit a huge fortune from your parents, you'll probably
waste most of it, and then your kids will
get a much smaller fortune and it's going to
It's going to peter out. OK, that's what usually
happens. Actually, most, um, most millionaires got, got to
be millionaires by just regular saving and investment over
a long period of time. And we know that
from surveys. So, um, And, you know, there's like,
there's just like data on uh how much, how
much like most millionaires have inherited, and, you know,
it's a, it's a modest amount. Uh, I think
most of them have inherited nothing. Right, Most of
the people who report being millionaires have zero inheritance
thus far. Right? And so like, yeah, yeah, you
know, you want to get rich, OK, like, um,
well, be smart, be hardworking, and save money over,
you know, a couple decades. That's what you do.
Oh, OK, but at a certain point in the
book, and, and this is an actual quote from
your book, you say that the quote, the richest
1% of Americans have in fact inherited an average
of $719,000. I, I mean, if that's correct, isn't
that still quite a lot of money?
Uh, $700,000 is a lot for most people, but,
uh, it's a tiny, it's a small fraction of
the amount of money that those people actually have,
right? Like they did not inherit most of their
money, they earned most of their money. So,
uh, oh, OK, but someone, uh, probably would say,
OK, so they inherited that money, $700,000 they start
with a huge advantage in terms of their wealth
accumulation, right.
Um, YEAH, you know, definitely an advantage to and
have some starting money, right? Um, BUT, you know,
like you give, if you give most people $700,000
they're not gonna do anything interesting with it. They're
going to spend it. Like they're, they're not gonna
turn, they're not going to turn it into $10
million. Right, like, you know, all the people are
like complaining about how they're poor and their parents
were poor. Like, if you give them $700,000 see
what they do with it. And, you know, OK,
you know, you may not know this, like if
you haven't met a lot of people, but, you
know, just like you get enough experience with people,
you're gonna realize that this is true. The vast
majority of people would just like waste it within
a few years or whatever. Um. And you know,
they would not turn into a great fortune.
So another related point that you tackle in the
book has to do with whether rich people are
paying a fair share of taxes. I mean, whether
it is through Uh, generational wealth or through those
kinds of psychological factors that play a role in
how successful people get, uh, financially speaking. I mean,
how do we determine whether they are really paying
a fair share of taxes? What does that mean?
Yeah, yeah, hard to say what is a fair
share, right? That's sort of like a, I don't
know, um, matter of opinion, matter of debate. Um,
BUT, you know, here's a thought experiment. Say like
there are 5 people who go out for dinner,
and, um, you know, it's a, it's a cheap
dinner, so the bill comes and it's $100. And,
you know, you think, OK, what would be the
fair way of dividing up this bill? Uh, YOU
know, that's supposed to be analogous to like, um,
you know, the bill for the government, right? The
government's budget, who, you know, who should pay how
much of the budget. Um, AND, you know, one
thought might be, everybody pays $20 divided evenly. Another
thought would be, well, maybe everybody pays for what
they themselves ate at the dinner. OK. Yeah, these
would be kind of like intuitive notions of fairness.
But uh if you look at either of these,
then the rich in America are paying vastly more
than their fair share. Right? Like, what's happening is,
uh, roughly the bottom 40% are paying nothing. Like
they're, they're getting Um, kickbacks. So they're getting, they're
getting, um, benefits from the government that are greater
than the amount of money that they're paying in.
So, in effect, they're paying a negative amount of
the bill. And then, like almost all the bills
being paid by the top 20%. Right. So it's
like you're at this, you're at this dinner, and
like, you know, two of the people say, um,
they want to get money back. They don't want
to pay any of the bill. They want other
people to pay them for having the dinner. And
then there's like one person who pays almost nothing,
and then there's one person who pays roughly 20%,
and somewhere roughly the amount, you know, the equal
amount. And then there's like one other person who
has to pay. For everybody else. It has to
pay for the entire shortfall, which is a huge
shortfall. That's our system. And then, OK, and then
the other 4 people start loudly complaining that that
one person who paid for almost everyone is not
paying his fair share. OK, cause that's the situation
in America.
Oh, OK, but I, I mean, looking at uh
statistics related to, I mean, economic inequality, wouldn't that,
would that, wouldn't that also uh weigh in on
how we determine whether rich people are paying their
fair share of taxes? I mean, because if the,
let's say the richest 1%. Own uh uh 60%
of uh the, the, the eco the economy or
something. I, I mean, I don't know the exact
number. I'm just inventing a number here and the
others, uh, have, uh, I mean, basically you have
to share the other 40% of the economy amongst
themselves. I mean, wouldn't you say that that's an
Fair, whatever the reason, uh, that, uh, happened.
Uh, NO, no, I would not say that. So
like, well, what if, and, uh, I don't know
what the numbers are either, OK. But anyway, so
you're, you know, you're at that dinner and like,
uh, there's this one person, and, you know, the
other people, the other 4 people want this one
person to pay for almost all of the bill,
right? OK. Um, AND he's like, no, that doesn't
seem fair to me. And then they say, well,
but you have more money than the rest of
us. So that's why you should pay. Now, like
that would not normally fly, right? Like you would
not think, well, just because he has more money,
that means that it's fair for him to have
to pay for everyone else. And now, OK, now
if the way that he got the money was
that he stole it from the other people, then
maybe, yeah, right. Although, like, just how much of
the bill he has to pay is a separate
issue. You just like say, well, he has to
return the money then, and then just paying even
share of the bill, OK. OK, but anyway, what
if the reason that that one person has more
money is that, well, he's like created more wealth.
Like, what if he actually created um the meal
that they just had? And then, and like, and
then they're all just like, oh, but you had
all this food to begin with, it's so unfair.
And the reason he had the food was that
he grew the food and prepared it. OK, because
I think that's basically the situation, right? They're the
people who are contributing an enormous amount to the
productivity of society, and then those people get rich,
and then other people start complaining that they're rich.
Like the reason why they're rich is that they
contributed, like they, they were productive. And and then
there are a bunch of people who are being
unproductive and who are complaining about the productive people
having more money than them.
OK, but, but since we're talking fairness here, someone,
a socialist, for example, might argue, oh, OK, you
say that they are, they earn, uh, they earn
that money because they are more productive, but in
fact, It's uh their workers, the collective of workers
that are uh uh that are being productive, I
mean that are producing the the really valuable, valuable
things, and then he's just extracting money from their
work. I mean, what, what would you make of
such an argument?
Yeah, so everybody who's participating in a business is
being productive, you know, by default, unless there's something
weird going on, right? But normally, everyone is being
productive because otherwise they wouldn't be working for the
business. Now, that does include the workers, but it
also includes the managers and includes investors who provided
the capital to start the business and things like
that. OK. It's just that, um, you know, a
bunch of socialists don't understand this, and they only
see the people who are doing like physical labor
on an assembly line as being productive, and they're
not seeing the productivity of other sort of less
tangible contributions, right? But like, if there's somebody who
is figuring out what the business should be doing,
somebody who took the initiative to start the business,
and is deciding what products it should be making,
and like where it should try to sell them,
and it's, you know, all, all the, what the
policy should be, like, all that has to be
done. If nobody does that, there's no business and
there's no productivity. So that person is also being
productive. OK. So then you might ask, OK, yeah,
sure, they're being productive, but how productive are they
being as productive as the people who are physically
assembling the goods? Well, like the way that you
measure that, like if you're an economist, the way
that you would measure that is probably um their
marginal productivity, which is to say, if you subtract
one person from the business without replacing them, how
much does the productivity of the business go down?
So, if, or, you know, how much does the
productivity of society go down? OK. So if you
subtract one blue collar worker from the economy, how
much does that reduce overall productivity? OK, a little
bit. And then if you subtract one capitalist from
the society, and you know, like a person who
provides capital to startup businesses, you subtract that from
the economy, how much does that reduce productivity? Well,
it's, it's a lot more. Right, because that person
is affecting the productive activities of many other people.
Right, so like if I start a business, that
causes many other people to start doing things in
that business which are productive. Right? And so it,
it's not implausible that the person who starts a
business could actually be 100 times more productive than
an individual worker who works for that business, right?
OK, so let's move on to some other myths,
in this case, science, uh, myths related to science
or how we should approach science and scientific consensus
and things like that. So, uh, first of all,
let me Ask you, do you think that uh
people should say that we should trust science? I
mean, is science something that uh people should trust
or should we use some other verb here?
Well, like, you have to sort of like clarify
what it means to trust science, right? You can't
really trust science, you can trust a person. Right?
Or you can trust statements that you hear. And,
so the people who are saying trust the science,
what they actually mean is trust the people who
are telling you that something was scientifically established, right?
Or trust the assertions that are made about what
science shows. And that sounds a lot less obvious,
right? OK, so like the scientific method is a
good way of trying to find stuff out. But
is this a good method? Um, BELIEVING whatever somebody
else tells you has been scientifically established. That's a
lot less of an impressive method, OK? Because one
of the problems is that, well, the people who
are telling you what science shows may not themselves
know. Like, often it's journalists who don't actually understand
science, OK? And, you know, they may not even,
they may not understand what a scientist told them,
or they may just like, they may not even
be listening to the scientists. They might be listening
to political activists, OK.
And, and what if, if it's the expert, him
or herself, what if, if, if it's the actual
scientist communicating the information?
Yeah, so, you know, usually, um, like we have,
we have well developed sciences where, um, most people
cannot acquire expertise about it. So like their best
bet, if they have to make a judgment, I
mean, you know, you could suspend judgment about the
things that you don't have expertise about. But if
there's some reason why you need to have a
belief about it or want to have a belief
about it, you know, your best bet is usually
to try to figure out what most experts think.
OK, so like, I'm not an expert on biology,
but I know that most biologists believe the theory
of evolution, so I believe it. And that's the
main reason I believe it. I have an idea
of what the evidence is, but I haven't verified
that evidence for myself. I just know that people
say that this is the evidence that we have,
and it sounds good. OK. And I, and, but
more importantly, I know that virtually every biologist agrees
with evolution, so that's probably true. OK, but you
know, um, you don't want to just like go
with one person, right? If you just like met
one scientist and he says X, well, you know,
you want to know if other scientists also agree
with that.
Oh, OK, but, but then, I mean, about uh
knowing that many scientists agree with the particular claim,
um, does then consensus matter in science because for
example, in the book you talk about that figure
that some people use of. Uh, AND, uh, you
can tell us where it comes from of 99%
of climate scientists agreeing that, uh, climate change, uh,
is a thing and it, that it is man-made.
Uh, SO, uh, what do, how should we approach
scientific consensus then?
Yeah, so, yeah, unfortunately, the, the issue has become
politicized as a result of which you can't really
trust the things that people tell you. OK. So
you hear, like there are people saying, 0, 97%
of climate scientists agree that global warming is man-made.
Uh, THERE'S, you know, one version of it is
they agree that human activity is the main cause
of global warming. Another version is they agree that
human activity is one cause of global warming. By
the way, that's importantly different. OK. Um, BUT it
turns out that, oh, where did that come from?
So it came from, there's an academic paper that
says that they surveyed abstracts of um papers in
climate science. They had like thousands of abstracts, and
they didn't read the whole papers, they just looked
at the abstracts. And then they looked for ones
where the abstract appeared to take a position on
anthropogenic global warming, right? Like man-made global warming. OK.
And it turned out that actually, um, the majority
of the majority of these abstracts did not take
any position on that. They didn't like, they didn't
apparently say whether they thought that it was man-made
or not. But the people writing this paper just
excluded all of those. And they only looked at
the ones where it looked like the abstract did,
did take a position on whether it was man-made.
And then among those, 97% of them implied that
human activity was at least part of the cause,
not that it was the main cause, and at
least part of the cause. OK. Now, that is
not an adequate methodology because for one thing, um,
it could be that the papers that don't take
a position are disproportionately likely to be people who
don't have a position. Like it could be that
the reason why all these abstracts were not taking
a position on anthropogenic global warming is that the
scientists didn't know whether it was anthropogenic. So then
if you can't then report, 97% of people agree
that it is. You see what I mean? OK.
In, um, in the same year that that paper
was published, which I think was 2013, uh, somebody
actually did a survey of the American Meteorological Society.
Um, AND in that survey, about 50% of the
people said that they agreed that global warming was
man-made. OK, and then it was like 70% among
climate specialists. OK, so that's a lot less than
97%. Right. And by the way, that's a better
methodology, right? Right. The other thing, um, you know,
the other thing is like, well, surveying abstracts isn't
the same as surveying scientists. Right? Like it could
be that the people who believe in anthropogenic global
warming are more likely to publish papers. So then
that would skew the results. So a better methodology
is to just survey a bunch of meteorologists.
OK, but then what should people do with all
of that information? I mean, since, as you said
that it's of course a very reasonable point to
make that the vast, vast majority of people do
not have enough expertise or even time to evaluate
the evidence themselves. Uh, HEARING about those figures, about
a certain percentage of climate scientists that think that
climate change is due to man-made activity, uh, uh,
uh, I, I mean, what should people make of
that then?
Yeah, yeah, good. So, yeah, so, well, it's still
probably true, right? It's just not as overwhelming as
it's being portrayed by the political activists, right? So,
um, I think there's widespread agreement that there is
global warming, like temperatures have gone up, um, you
know, a little over one C since the start
of the industrial revolution. Um, Yeah, I've forgotten how
much exactly, but anyway, OK. Um. So temperature probably
has gone up, and then, you know, majority of
the climate scientists think that human beings are at
least part of the cause, a significant part of
the cause. So that's probably true. Uh, YOU know,
so, but it wouldn't be totally shocking if that
turned out to be false, right? Like it would
be shocking if 97% or 99% of the climate
scientists were wrong. It wouldn't be shocking if 70%
of them were wrong, and the other, you know,
whatever, 10% were right or something like that. That
wouldn't be totally shocking, like stuff like that has
happened in the history of science. Um, SO, OK.
Um, uh, THE other thing is, OK, so like,
you know, human beings are contributing to warming the
planet. Um, THE other, another thing that people say
is, oh, it's going to kill all of us.
Like I've heard this, I've heard this from students
who are under the impression that, uh, like climate
scientists agree that the entire human species is in
danger of going extinct because of a phenomenon that
increased temperatures by 1 degree in the last 150
years. Like, like, yeah, that's going to kill everyone.
And just like as a sort of initial reality
check, that doesn't seem very plausible. OK. But then
if you look at what actual climate scientists say,
like virtually none of them say that. They, they
do say things like, well, there's going to be
more flooding in coastal areas. Um, YOU know, there's
probably gonna be more deaths due to heat. Right,
you know, sometimes people die of heat stroke and
things like that. So there's gonna be increases that.
There's gonna be increases in malaria in someplace. They
say stuff like that. They don't say everyone is
going to die.
Yeah And I mean, where do you think that
that claim, like you said, that scientists say that
global warming is likely to destroy civilization if we
don't take drastic action very soon? I mean, that
kind of claim, where do you think it comes
from? Is it from activists or someone
else? Yeah, it's, it's political activists, right? Political activists
who don't know what they're talking about and, you
know, maybe they're just liars. Um, THEY'RE, you know,
there aren't liars or they just don't understand, OK.
But, um, you know, there's this, there's this thing
where Greta Thunberg said, um, It's something like, you
know, we had 12 years to stop global warming
or it would probably lead to the end of
civilization, then AOC said something like that also. Um,
AOC, uh, Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, the congresswoman from wherever it
is. Anyway, you know, left-wing congressman, um, she probably
got it from Greta Thunberg. Greta Thunberg, apparently, um,
Got it or thought that she got it from
an IPCC report. It was an IPCC report that
said, you know, we've got to drastically curtail CO2
emissions within 12 years if we are going to
stop, if we're going to keep global warming under
1.5 degrees C relative to pre-industrial levels, and we
were already, we're already at 1 degree. OK, so
to prevent another half degree of warming, we would
have to drastically curtail within 12 years. OK. They
never said that the failure to do so would
result in the destruction of civilization, either then or
ever, not in 12 years or ever. OK, so
I don't know, and it just looks like the
activists didn't like look at the actual report. They
heard that there was a 12-year time limit or
something. Right, but they didn't, they didn't get what
it was a limit for.
Oh, OK, but, but then let me ask you,
and uh, I understand perfectly well that as a
philosopher, you're interested in, uh, people telling the truth,
people telling things as they are, and the epistemic
value of claims. But do you think that Uh,
climate activists exaggerating the potential consequences of climate change
might have some political value in, in terms of
trying to raise people's awareness of the, of climate
change.
Yeah, I mean this is what a lot of
activists think that, well, if we just tell the
truth, then people won't take action. If we just
say like, well, there's going to be a moderately
serious global problem that's, you know, in line with
like 10 other global problems, then people won't do
anything about it. OK. So we have to like
vastly exaggerate it so that we can get people
alarmed so that then they will make the government
do something. But the problem is, we have limited
resources. We can't address every problem, and we won't
address every problem. So we need to direct our
resources to the biggest problems. And if you have
this thing that's like number 50 on the list
of problems, and you promote it so that everyone
thinks it's number 1, that means that you're taking
resources away from much more serious problems that need
to be fixed. We could address malaria, like that
would be an easier intervention, like, You know, the
bunch of people who are dying from malaria or
tuberculosis, like, it's much cheaper to save lives from
that than it is to save lives by trying
to stop global warming. You try to stop global
warming, like you're going to spend trillions of dollars
and it's just going to slow it down a
little bit. OK. But like we, we know really
effective ways of stopping some of these other problems.
So, you know, like insecticide treated um mosquito nets,
OK? Because malaria is transmitted by mosquitoes.
Right. So, uh, now let me just ask you
a few more general questions not related to specific
political myths, but do you think that the political
myths nowadays are more widespread than they were before?
And if so, what do you think are the
causes behind it?
Yeah, it seems like they are. It seems like
there's more political BS going around. Um, IT seems
to have something to do with the internet and
social media. Right? So what has happened in the
past, whatever, couple of decades is, um, everyone gets
a voice. So like, it used to be that,
um, we had a small number of news sources
that would give people information about the current state
of our society. And then like, well, yeah, pretty
much everyone would have pretty similar information. But now
we have this situation where, like, you know, a
14-year-old with an internet connection can like start posting
content that could be seen by millions of people.
And just, just like anybody can post whatever they
want. And then, and then there's, and there's this
kind of competition. Right, so, you know, it's like
not only that there is. This sort of like
this openness for anybody to say anything, but like
we have these algorithms which will promote the content
that's most engaging. OK. So there's this competition among
providers to find the most engaging content. Like, there
are a bunch of people who just want to
get as many clicks and as many likes as
possible. They might get paid more for that, or
they might just get like an ego boost from
that. And it turns out that the way of
getting the most engagement or like the way of
attracting the most attention is not to be the
most accurate. Like the stuff that attracts the most
attention is not the most accurate information. It's emotional
information, which is very frequently inaccurate. Like the like
the way to get people most excited is frequently
to lie. You're to say, to say that stuff's
happening, that's a lot more exciting than what's actually
happening.
Uh, BUT do you look at misinformation and the
spread of misinformation, particularly on the internet and social
media, as something dangerous, as a big problem as
some people make it out to be, because I,
I think it was in 2024. I can't remember
exactly the international organization, but, but I think it
was the UN who put forth a list of
the biggest problems that we had to deal with
over the next few years, and misinformation came out
number one. Uh, AHEAD of, I don't know, war,
climate change, and stuff like that, but I, I
mean, do, do you think that it is that
serious?
You know, it's really hard to estimate how big
of a problem it is, because its impacts are
hard to identify and they're indirect. So the effect
of, like the, you know, initially you might think,
oh well, a bunch of people have false beliefs,
big deal. Like, how does that compare to like,
you know, um, whatever, millions of people dying from
world poverty. How, how could you say that misinformation
is above that? But I think the rationale would
be, well, misinformation is preventing us from solving the
other problems. So like, we're not going to identify
what the problems are that we need to attend
to, nor what are the actual relevant facts about
those problems, if we have a bunch of people
just like lying about them, right? And so. And
so, you know, it's, it's not implausible that it's
a major problem. It's not implausible that it could
actually be the top problem.
Because you think that perhaps misinformation would play a
role in the other big problems that we have
to deal with. Is that?
That's right. That's right, yeah. You know, cause us
to misallocate resources, cause us to adopt policies that
don't work. Because we have incorrect beliefs about the
nature of the problems, right?
OK, so, and do you think that political beliefs,
because those are the ones you focus on in
your book, are different from other sorts of beliefs.
I mean, are they, uh, epistemologically speaking, do you
think that they are different from other beliefs?
Well, um, so, well, and you know, I'm just
trying to interpret the epistemologically speaking, uh, modify, or,
or, or,
or, oh, OK, OK, or perhaps let me put
it another way, uh, do you think that, uh,
the way that people, um, Deal psychologically with political
beliefs that they are different from other kinds of
beliefs that people might have. So instead of on
the on the approaching it on a on an
epistemological basis, let's perhaps do it on a psychological
basis. Yeah,
yeah, yeah, I mean like the, the major difference
between political beliefs and most ordinary beliefs is, uh,
for most of your beliefs you bear the consequences
of error. So if you have incorrect beliefs about
your personal life, that is going to personally harm
you. Um, IF you, so I don't know, you're
considering a job offer, you want to have correct
beliefs about the terms of the job, and correct
beliefs about what the job is going to be
like, you know. Um, IF you don't, then you're
going to pay the costs of having incorrect beliefs.
But with political beliefs, um, the costs of being
wrong are mostly borne by other people, not by
you. Right. So like, uh, let's say I think
that immigration harms the economy. That's not what I
think, but, you know, suppose I think that, um,
and I'm wrong about that, actually, it helps the
economy. OK, so then what I do is I
vote for anti-immigration politicians, and Like, I don't bear
the cost of that. So the probability that I
actually make a difference to the outcome of an
election is on the order of 1 in a
million, 1 in 10 million, or something like that.
So probably there will be no costs from me
individually thinking that. But if there's like millions of
people who think that, then it could be serious
costs. OK. But You know, like, like, for me,
personally, I don't have any incentive to try to
be more accurate because I know there's almost no
chance that I would actually make a difference in
policy. If I did make a difference in policy
in the one in a million chance, um, the
cost will be borne by me and the entire
rest of society. So I'm only going to bear
a tiny fraction of the cost. OK. And that's
why most people are not very careful about their
political beliefs. They don't care enough. To make sure
that they're
right. And do you think that there will be
anything that people could do to care more about
their own political beliefs, and do you think that,
I, I mean, how can we avoid the potential
harm of political myths?
Yeah, well, I don't know, so I don't, I
don't know if we can fix this problem, but
what I attempt to do is I try to
convince people that it's wrong to be irrational. Right,
and so even though to be, you know, irrational
and you're thinking about political matters,
but, but by wrong, do you mean epistemically wrong
or also morally wrong?
Yeah, morally wrong. Oh,
OK, OK,
so, um. It's, yeah, it's not just that you'll
have a false belief, it's that you're, you're being
immoral. And so even though it's not going to
harm you personally, and it might be in your
interests to be reckless about your political beliefs, um,
it's morally wrong. And why is that? Well, because
this is harming society. Now, you individually are. Only,
only contributing a small amount or a small probability
of harming society, right? Although in that one in
a million chance that you actually affect the outcome,
it would be a large harm that you cause.
But anyway, you individually are only contributing a small
amount to the harm, but it's like, it's part
of this larger phenomenon. You're being a part of
this larger social problem that's like a major problem
for society. Right? That, you know, we have bad
policy because we have a bunch of irrational beliefs
about political issues. Uh, AND it's just wrong to
contribute to that if you don't have a good
reason for contributing to it.
So, one last question then, and I guess that
this ties to my previous question about uh trusting
science and when we also talked about trusting experts.
Uh, HOW do you think that people can find
reliable sources of information? Because I mean nowadays, particularly
on the internet, there are so many bad and
unreliable sources of information. So how can people find
the good ones?
Yeah. So, I mean, I think there's some kinds
of sources that are generally reliable that are sort
of, I don't know, like the canonical sources. So
like if you wanted to learn about a, um,
a case that appeared in US courts, you can
get actual documents from the case. Like, you could
read the judge's report on why he made a
decision or something like that. OK? And that will
generally be accurate. Um, TAKE for example, the Michael
Brown case where like there's a whole bunch of
bullshit in the media about it, but you could
actually read the FBI report about it. They investigated
it and they interviewed like all the witnesses they
could find, and they looked at the forensic evidence.
Look at the report, you're going to find out
the truth. You're going to find out what actually
happened. Um, ANOTHER thing is like for certain social
issues, there'll be just like kind of official sources.
So like, I think the FBI, um, crime statistics
are probably pretty reliable. Probably know what's going on.
Or, you know, uh, the Federal Reserve has a
bunch of economic statistics. They're probably like, they're not
partisan hacks, you know, they're not, they're not, yeah,
they're not like producing propaganda for a particular um
political side. Uh, THE other thing is like, well,
you could try to, you look for authors who
appear to be reliable. OK, so like, I think
Scott Alexander, the blogger is um highly reliable, right?
You know, not that he's always right, but he's
conscientious, you know, and he's, he's not a partisan
hack. He's, he's not trying to produce propaganda, he's
trying his best to find out what happened. And
sometimes like he will do a lot of work
to find out what's going on with a particular
issue, which, you know, most readers don't want to
do that amount of work, so it's really helpful.
And that, well, how could you tell who's reliable?
Um, I don't know all the signs, but it's
sort of like when you start reading somebody, you
can get a sense. You know, like, um, they
appear to be trying to address the other side,
and what they say about what the other side
says sounds reasonable, that, that they, that that is
what they would say, right? And like, they're addressing
things that sound like the reasonable argument, the reasonable
objections, um. Uh, YOU know, they're like trying to
collect evidence. You know, they're not just saying stuff,
they're collecting evidence and telling you about the evidence.
Uh, SOMETIMES they qualify their statements. You know, like,
They, they don't just say whatever, like, this is,
this is always the case. They'd be like, so
this is usually the case, or like, uh, this
is probably the case or something like that. So
anyway, and that I have more, more things like
that in the book, but Yeah.
OK, great. So the book is again Progressive myths,
and I'm leaving a link to it in the
description of the interview, and uh Doctor Huer, would
you like to tell people where they can find
you on the internet?
Uh, WELL, I do have a blog called Fake
News on Substack. It's F A K E N
O U S dotsubstack.com, and um yeah, I have
a weekly blog post, so everyone should subscribe. Uh,
I also have like, you know, I have like
a dozen books that are for sale on Amazon.
Um, WHICH, you know, everybody should immediately buy.
Yeah, uh, I agree. And thank you so much
for taking the time to come on the show
again. It's always a pleasure to talk with you.
Oh, thanks for having me. It was great talking
with you.
Hi guys, thank you for watching this interview until
the end. If you liked it, please share it,
leave a like and hit the subscription button. The
show is brought to you by Enlights Learning and
Development done differently. Check their website at enlights.com and
also please consider supporting the show on Patreon or
PayPal. I would also like to give a huge
thank you to my main patrons and PayPal supporters,
Perergo Larsson, Jerry Muller, Frederick Sundo, Bernard Seyaz Olaf,
Alex, Adam Cassel, Matthew Whittingberrd, Arnaud Wolff, Tim Hollis,
Eric Elena, John Connors, Philip Forst Connolly. Then Dmitri
Robert Windegerru Inai Zu Mark Nevs, Colin Holbrookfield, Governor,
Michel Stormir, Samuel Andrea, Francis Forti Agnun, Svergoo, and
Hal Herzognun, Machael Jonathan Labran, John Yardston, and Samuel
Curric Hines, Mark Smith, John Ware, Tom Hammel, Sardusran,
David Sloan Wilson, Yasilla Dezaraujo Romain Roach, Diego Londono
Correa. Yannik Punteran Ruzmani, Charlotte Blis Nicole Barbaro, Adam
Hunt, Pavlostazevski, Alekbaka Madison, Gary G. Alman, Semov, Zal
Adrian Yei Poltonin, John Barboza, Julian Price, Edward Hall,
Edin Bronner, Douglas Fry, Franco Bartolati, Gabriel Pancortez or
Suliliski, Scott Zachary Fish, Tim Duffy, Sony Smith, and
Wisman. Daniel Friedman, William Buckner, Paul Georg Jarno, Luke
Lovai, Georgios Theophannus, Chris Williamson, Peter Wolozin, David Williams,
Dio Costa, Anton Ericsson, Charles Murray, Alex Shaw, Marie
Martinez, Coralli Chevalier, Bangalore atheists, Larry D. Lee Junior.
Old Eringbon. Esterri, Michael Bailey, then Spurber, Robert Grassy,
Zigoren, Jeff McMahon, Jake Zul, Barnabas Raddix, Mark Kempel,
Thomas Dovner, Luke Neeson, Chris Story, Kimberly Johnson, Benjamin
Galbert, Jessica Nowicki, Linda Brendan, Nicholas Carlson, Ismael Bensleyman.
George Ekoriati, Valentine Steinmann, Per Crawley, Kate Van Goler,
Alexander Obert, Liam Dunaway, BR, Massoud Ali Mohammadi, Perpendicular,
Jannes Hetner, Ursula Guinov, Gregory Hastings, David Pinsov, Sean
Nelson, Mike Levin, and Jos Necht. A special thanks
to my producers Iar Webb, Jim Frank Lucas Stink,
Tom Vanneden, Bernardine Curtis Dixon, Benedict Mueller, Thomas Trumbull,
Catherine and Patrick Tobin, John Carlomon Negro, Al Nick
Cortiz, and Nick Golden, and to my executive producers,
Matthew Lavender, Sergio Quadrian, Bogdan Kanis, and Rosie. Thank
you for all.